V2_CAUTION/VSCode server setup.md, before:

# 🧭 Step 1 — Get your Tailscale IP

Inside the **host** (not the container):

```bash
tailscale ip -4
```

You’ll get something like:

```
100.x.y.z
```

This is the IP behind your MagicDNS name:

```
##machine_name##.tail####.ts.net
```

We will bind VS Code Server **only** to this IP.

```bash
# assuming vscode is already installed in container run:
code serve-web --host 100.*.*.* --port 8000 --without-connection-token
```

---

# 🧭 Step 2 — Connect from iPad or computer 

Just open in Safari:

```
http://##machine_name##.tail###.ts.net:8000/
```

---

# Install Jupiter labs and set up condo py314 environment kernel inside container:

```bash
# install jupyter labs
uv pip install jupyterlab

# install support for conda env py314 for example (use your own conda env):
conda activate py314
uv pip install ipykernel
python -m ipykernel install --user --name py314 --display-name "Python 3.14 (py314)"

# run jupyter labs
jupyter lab --no-browser --ip=100.*.*.* --port=9999 --ServerApp.token='' --ServerApp.password=''
```


- - -

# ￼command line for automation:

```bash
# run jupyter labs and vscode serve in distrobox container
jupyter lab --no-browser --ip=100.*.*.* --port=9999 --ServerApp.token='' --ServerApp.password='' &
code serve-web --host 100.*.*.* --port 8000 --without-connection-token
```

---
# Create shortcut scripts for tailscale automation

/var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_on.sh (put in your own IP address):
```
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# Start JupyterLab
jupyter lab \
  --no-browser \
  --ip=100.*.*.* \
  --port=9999 \
  --ServerApp.token='' \
  --ServerApp.password='' &

# Start VS Code Server (Microsoft version)
code serve-web \
  --host 100.*.*.* \
  --port 8000 \
  --without-connection-token &

```

```
chmod +x /var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_on.sh
```

/var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_off.sh:
```
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# Kill JupyterLab
pkill -f "jupyter-lab"
pkill -f "jupyter lab"

# Kill VS Code Server
pkill -f "code serve-web"

```

```
chmod +x /var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_off.sh
```

- update the `main.py` file as provided in the directory
- create your iPad and Siri shortcuts: "initiate code on", "initiate code off" works ("initiate VSCode on" causes Siri to do a web search)
- - -
If your FastAPI ever fails to update on the iPad, check for multiple instances running by:
`ps aux | grep uvicorn`

I found two of them so I had to delete them:
`pkill -f "uvicorn main:app"`

confirm they are gone:
`ps aux | grep uvicorn`

restart:
`uv run uvicorn main:app --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000`

then the FastAPI web-page on the iPad was updated with `/vscode_on` and `/vscode_off` added and the shortcuts were then ready.

Commit message:

Clarify VS Code Server setup instructions
Updated instructions for setting up VS Code Server and Jupyter Labs on Fedora Silverblue, including clarifications on IP usage and container commands, scripts for automation and a note if FastAPI is stale.

V2_CAUTION/VSCode server setup.md, after:

# 🧭 Step 1 — Get your Tailscale IP

Inside the Fedora Silverblue **host** (not the distrobox container):

```bash
tailscale ip -4
```

You’ll get something like:

```
100.x.y.z
```

This is the IP behind your MagicDNS name:

```
##machine_name##.tail####.ts.net
```

We will bind VS Code Server **only** to this IP.

```bash
# assuming vscode is already installed in a distrobox container run to check it works manually (with your IP):
code serve-web --host 100.*.*.* --port 8000 --without-connection-token
```

---

# 🧭 Step 2 — Connect from iPad or computer 

Just open in Safari using your tailscale MagicID details:

```
http://##machine_name##.tail###.ts.net:8000/
```

---

# Install Jupiter labs and link to one or more conda environments to replicate the VSCode kernel options (inside the same distrobox container):

```bash
# install jupyter labs
uv pip install jupyterlab

# install support for conda env py314 for example (use your own conda env):
conda activate py314
uv pip install ipykernel
python -m ipykernel install --user --name py314 --display-name "Python 3.14 (py314)"

# run jupyter labs
jupyter lab --no-browser --ip=100.*.*.* --port=9999 --ServerApp.token='' --ServerApp.password=''
```


- - -

# ￼Manual command line to check it works for automation:

```bash
# run jupyter labs and vscode serve in distrobox container
jupyter lab --no-browser --ip=100.*.*.* --port=9999 --ServerApp.token='' --ServerApp.password='' &
code serve-web --host 100.*.*.* --port 8000 --without-connection-token
```

---
# Create shortcut scripts for tailscale automation

/var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_on.sh (put in your own IP address):
```
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# Start JupyterLab
jupyter lab \
  --no-browser \
  --ip=100.*.*.* \
  --port=9999 \
  --ServerApp.token='' \
  --ServerApp.password='' &

# Start VS Code Server (Microsoft version)
code serve-web \
  --host 100.*.*.* \
  --port 8000 \
  --without-connection-token &

```
set permissions on vscode_on.sh:
```
chmod +x /var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_on.sh
```

/var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_off.sh:
```
#!/usr/bin/env bash

# Kill JupyterLab
pkill -f "jupyter-lab"
pkill -f "jupyter lab"

# Kill VS Code Server
pkill -f "code serve-web"

```
set permissions on vscode_off.sh:
```
chmod +x /var/home/fraser/backup_service/vscode_off.sh
```

- copy the updated `main.py` file from the github V2 directory (it should contain /ostree_upgrade, /vscode_on, /vscode_off along with the rest)
- create your iPad and Siri shortcuts: "initiate code on" and "initiate code off" works ("initiate VSCode on" causes Siri to do a web search)
- - -
If your FastAPI ever fails to update on the iPad, check for multiple instances running by:

`ps aux | grep uvicorn`

I found two of them so I had to delete them:

`pkill -f "uvicorn main:app"`

confirm they are gone:

`ps aux | grep uvicorn`

restart:

`uv run uvicorn main:app --host 127.0.0.1 --port 8000`

then the FastAPI web-page on the iPad was updated with `/vscode_on` and `/vscode_off`. You can also check FastAPI on the host machine with `http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs`.
